People we've lost in 2021. Daredevil Alex Harvill died Thursday, June 17, while practicing for a world-record motorcycle ramp jump, officials in Washington state said. He was 28 years old. Harvill was hoping to break the record of a 351-foot jump, according to the Moses Lake Airshow, where his attempt was scheduled. Actor Frank Bonner, best known for his role as an overconfident sales manager in the TV sitcom "WKRP in Cincinnati," died Wednesday, June 16, his daughter Desiree Boers-Kort told CNN. He was 79 years old. Actress Lisa Banes, who appeared in numerous television series and films such as "Gone Girl," died Monday, June 14, after suffering injuries sustained from being hit by a scooter in New York City earlier this month, the NYPD and a law enforcement official told CNN. She was 65. Ned Beatty, an Oscar-nominated character actor whose many films include "Deliverance" and "Superman," died Sunday, June 13, at the age of 83. Clarence Williams III, who played Linc Hayes in "The Mod Squad," died at his home in Los Angeles after battling colon cancer, his manager Peg Donegan told CNN in a statement on June 6. Williams was 81. David Dushman, the last surviving soldier who helped liberate Auschwitz-Birkenau, died June 5 at the age of 98, the Jewish community of Munich and Upper Bavaria said in a statement on its website. F. Lee Bailey, a prominent and controversial defense attorney, died June 3 at the age of 87. His death was confirmed to CNN by Jennifer Sisson, a manager at Bailey's consulting firm. Bailey was best known for his participation in the successful defenses of high-profile clients, including O.J. Simpson. Gavin MacLeod, known for his roles on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and "The Love Boat," died on May 29, his nephew Mark See told Variety. He was 90 years old. Grammy-winning singer B.J. Thomas died May 29 of complications from lung cancer, his publicist said. Thomas was 78. He was propelled to stardom in 1970 when he was chosen to perform "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head" for the film "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." Former Utah Jazz center Mark Eaton died at the age of 64, the team confirmed in a statement on May 29. Eaton was found unconscious near his home in Summit County, Utah, after being involved in what appeared to be a bicycle crash, according to the Summit County Sheriff's Office. Eaton was transported to a nearby hospital where he died. Eaton was a two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year and has the fourth-most blocks in league history. He still holds the record for most blocked shots in a season, amassing 456 blocks during the 1984-85 season. John Warner, who represented Virginia in the US Senate for three decades and was widely respected for his views on military affairs, died May 25 at the age of 94. Samuel E. Wright, the actor who voiced Sebastian the crab in Disney's "The Little Mermaid" and sang the film's Oscar-winning song "Under the Sea," died May 24 at the age of 74. Eric Carle, the author and artist of "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" and dozens of other popular children's books, died on May 23. He was 91. Paul Mooney, an actor-comedian famous for starring on "Chappelle's Show" and "Bamboozled," died on May 19, according to a rep for the actor. He was 79. Charles Grodin, a versatile comedic actor best known for his roles in movies like "Midnight Run" and "The Heartbreak Kid," died May 18 after battling cancer, according to his son. He was 86. Colt Brennan, a former football quarterback who starred at the University of Hawaii, died at a California hospital at the age of 37, his family confirmed to CNN on May 11. His sister, Carrera Shea, said he had been in a long-term rehab facility and relapsed. Brennan set the NCAA single-season record for touchdown passes when he threw 58 of them in 2006. That record was eclipsed by LSU's Joe Burrow in 2019. Rock and Roll Hall of Fame singer Lloyd Price died at the age of 88, his longtime manager confirmed to CNN on May 9. Price was called "Mr. Personality" for his smash recording of "Personality," and he was known for adapting the New Orleans sound starting in the 1950s with hits such as "Stagger Lee" and "Lawdy Miss Clawdy." Pervis Staples, one of the founding members of the legendary Chicago gospel group the Staple Singers, died on May 6, according to a funeral home notice and Facebook post. He was 85. Staples is seen here, third from left, along with the rest of the Staple Singers. Nick Kamen, a British model and singer who appeared in a famous 1985 Levi's commercial, died at the age of 59, his family confirmed to the PA Media news agency on May 5. Kamen also collaborated with Madonna on the 1986 record "Each Time you Break my Heart." Race car driver Bobby Unser, winner of the 1968, 1975 and 1981 Indianapolis 500s, died May 2 at the age of 87. Unser is one of 10 drivers to win the prestigious Indy 500 at least three times, and he was the first driver to win the race in three different decades. Actress Olympia Dukakis, who won an Oscar for her role in the 1987 film "Moonstruck," died on May 1, according to her agent. She was 89 years old. Former New York Jets football player Pete Lammons died in an accident during a fishing tournament in Texas on April 29, according to tournament officials and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. He was 77. Michael Collins, the NASA astronaut who was the command module pilot for the Apollo 11 mission to the moon, died April 28 after battling cancer, according to a statement released by his family. He was 90. Geno Hayes, a former NFL linebacker, died April 26, according to his former high school football coach Frankie Carroll. The cause of death was related to liver disease, Carroll said. Hayes played at Florida State University before going on to play for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Chicago Bears and Jacksonville Jaguars. He was 33. Celebrated fashion designer Alber Elbaz, perhaps best known for his work at Yves Saint Laurent and Lanvin, died of Covid-19 on April 24, a spokesperson for the luxury fashion company Richemont told CNN. Elbaz was 59. Walter "Fritz" Mondale, who served as vice president under President Jimmy Carter before waging his own unsuccessful White House bid in 1984, died on April 19. He was 93. Helen McCrory, the British actress best known for her roles in the Harry Potter films and the TV series "Peaky Blinders," died April 16 at the age of 52. Her husband, actor Damian Lewis, tweeted that she died "peacefully at home" after a "heroic battle with cancer." Prince Philip, the lifelong companion of Queen Elizabeth II and the longest-serving consort in British history, died on April 9. He was 99. DMX, a rapper known as much for his troubles as his music, died after being hospitalized following a heart attack, according to a statement released by his family on April 9. He was 50. The Grammy-nominated artist sold millions of albums, boosted by hits like "Get At Me Dog" in 1998, "Party Up" in 1999 and "X Gon' Give It to Ya" in 2003. US Rep. Alcee Hastings, a civil rights activist and the longest-serving member of Florida's congressional delegation, died at the age of 84, his chief of staff Lale M. Morrison told CNN on April 6. G. Gordon Liddy -- a former FBI agent, organizer of the Watergate break-in and radio show host -- died March 30 at the age of 90, his son confirmed to CNN. Children's book author Beverly Cleary died March 25 at the age of 104, her publishing company announced. Cleary's books have sold more than 85 million copies and were translated into 29 different languages. Acclaimed novelist and screenwriter Larry McMurtry died March 25 at the age of 84, according to his publicist. McMurtry won the Pulitzer Prize in 1986 for the novel "Lonesome Dove." Jessica Walter, an award-winning actress beloved for her role in the television series "Arrested Development," died March 24, her daughter confirmed in a statement to CNN. She was 80. George Segal, a prolific actor with a career that spanned more than six decades, died at age 87, his wife said on March 23. Segal received an Oscar nomination in 1966 for his role in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" Basketball Hall of Famer Elgin Baylor, who played for the Lakers for 14 seasons and was an All-Star 11 times, died March 22 at the age of 86. Elsa Peretti, the famed jewelry designer for Tiffany & Co., died on March 18, according to her foundation. She was 80. "A masterful artisan, Elsa was responsible for a revolution in the world of jewelry design," said a statement from Tiffany. "Her collections of organic, sensual forms have inspired generations." Yaphet Kotto, an actor known for bringing gravitas to his roles across television and film, died March 14, according to his agent. He was 81. Kotto's notable film work includes roles in "Alien," "The Running Man," "Midnight Run" and "Live and Let Die," in which he played iconic Bond villain Mr. Big. In television, his longest-running role was as Lt. Al Giardello on NBC's "Homicide: Life on the Street." Former boxing champion "Marvelous" Marvin Hagler died March 13 at the age of 66, according to his wife. Hagler dominated the middleweight division for nearly a decade. Lou Ottens, the Dutch inventor of the cassette tape, died at the age of 94, his family confirmed to CNN on March 11. Jahmil French, an actor known for his role as Dave Turner on the Canadian series "Degrassi: The Next Generation," died on March 1, according to his manager, Gabrielle Kachman. He was 29. No details on the cause of death were made available. Vernon Jordan, a civil rights leader and close adviser to former President Bill Clinton, died on March 1, multiple sources close to the family told CNN. He was 85. Broadcasting pioneer and former NFL Pro Bowl cornerback Irv Cross died on February 28, the Philadelphia Eagles announced on the team's website. He was 81. Cross was the first African American sports analyst on national television when he worked for CBS Sports as an NFL analyst and commentator from 1971 to 1994. Lawrence Ferlinghetti, the Beat poet, publisher and founder of San Francisco's beloved City Lights bookstore, died February 22 at the age of 101. Ferlinghetti was one of the last surviving members of the Beat Generation, and he played a key role in expanding the literary movement's focus to the West Coast. Rush Limbaugh, the conservative media icon who for decades used his perch as the king of talk radio to shape the politics of both the Republican Party and nation, died February 17 after a battle with cancer. He was 70. Johnny Pacheco, considered the "godfather of salsa" for popularizing the Latin musical genre, died at the age of 85 according to his wife and and former record label on February 15. Renowned jazz pianist and composer Chick Corea died from "a rare form of cancer," a statement on the musician's website said on February 11. He was 79. Over a career that spanned more than 50 years, Corea worked with some of the bigge