Controversial Jerusalem march poses first test for new Israeli government. Kristie Lu Stout is an award-winning anchor and correspondent for CNN, based in Hong Kong. She reports from the newsroom and in the field on major breaking news stories including US-China relations, Hong Kong's changing political landscape, the coronavirus pandemic, and the aftermath of extreme climate events in the region. She also hosts feature programs for CNN, most recently presenting Tech For Good, a television and digital series of intimate, inspiring, and transformative stories from every corner of the globe. In her feature show Inventing Tomorrow, Lu Stout interviews the entrepreneurs, experts and businesses developing innovative ways to battle and navigate the COVID-19 health crisis. Based in China for two decades, Lu Stout maintains a focus on how developments in China are dramatically changing the world for all of us. From anchoring CNN's groundbreaking "Eye on China" series in 2004 to covering the Trump-Xi Summit in Beijing to reporting on fresh tensions with a new U.S. administration, Lu Stout has remained committed to reporting on the country. She was also instrumental in launching "On China," CNN's first-ever regular series focused on the country -- a first by any international TV news network. Her program "Inventing Tomorrow: Tech in a Pandemic" was awarded Best Covid-19 Factual Feature at the 2020 Content Asia Awards. In 2020, she and her CNN Hong Kong colleagues were awarded Best Continuing News Reporting for TV and Video by the Association for International Broadcasting for team coverage of the 2019 Hong Kong Protests. In 2018, Lu Stout was awarded Best News or Current Affairs Presenter at the Asian Academy Creative Awards, while the news program she conceived and launched in 2010 -- News Stream -- was awarded Best News Program. Other accolades include multiple honors from the Asia Television Awards and Best News Coverage from the Royal Television Society in 2013 for coverage of Super Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. With over 850,000 fans and followers on social media, Lu Stout believes in engaging with her viewers and makes social media an integral part of her reporting. She also believes in contributing to the debate with viewers off-camera with regular speaking and moderating appearances and is well known for her style in stimulating frank and lively conversations. Lu Stout also plays an active role in promoting the CNN Freedom Project, the network's award-winning initiative focused on reporting stories of modern-day slavery, including student outreach in Hong Kong and across Asia as part of #MyFreedomDay. Lu Stout started her career in journalism in San Francisco at WIRED magazine's online division. She has written on technology for various media publications including the South China Morning Post, where she founded and wrote the Beijing Byte column. Before her career in journalism, she was an early employee at Beijing-based Internet company Sohu.com and worked for Reuters' new media team in China. Lu Stout is a proud Asian American. She holds a bachelor's and a master's degree from Stanford University, and studied advanced Mandarin Chinese at Beijing's Tsinghua University.